Why should we speak with conviction?
Because our conviction can convey,
more powerfully than words alone,
how we really feel about our message.
At 1 Thessalonians 1:5,
the apostle Paul wrote:
“The good news we preach
did not come to you with speech alone
but . . . with strong conviction.”
So how do we show that we’re convinced
that the good news of God’s Kingdom
is the most valuable message we could share?
First,
we prepare thoroughly.
In other words, we convince ourselves
of the value of our message.
Second,
we choose words that convey our conviction.
And finally,
we express ourselves
earnestly and sincerely.
For instance,
how would you express yourself if you
were giving a talk about the resurrection?
Let’s watch an example.
Jesus resurrected Lazarus.
How can that Bible account help us?
Well, if we have lost loved ones in death,
we can put our trust in the resurrection.
The speaker is correct,
but did he express firm conviction?
Not really.
We learn how
to express ourselves with conviction
from Jesus and Martha
in this very Bible account.
John 11:23 records Jesus’ words:
“Your brother will rise.”
With these words,
Jesus expressed complete conviction.
Also, verse 24 records Martha’s reply:
“I know he will rise
in the resurrection on the last day.”
Martha, too, expressed her firm conviction.
Let’s now give our brother another chance.
Jesus resurrected Lazarus.
How does this Bible account help us?
Well, when loved ones fall asleep in death,
we know we’ll see them again.
The fulfillment of Jehovah’s promises
is as sure as the sun rising each day.
Jehovah will awaken our dear loved ones
to life in Paradise.
What a difference!
Not only did the speaker
express himself earnestly
but he chose words that showed
his firm belief in the resurrection hope.
Can we express
similar conviction in the ministry?
Yes!
And this is especially important
when our faith is challenged.
Imagine, for instance, that a schoolmate,
a teacher, or a workmate expresses surprise
that you don’t join in a certain celebration.
How will you respond?
So you’re coming
to the Christmas party next week, right?
Uh.
I don’t think I can make it.
What do you mean?
Everybody’s going to be there.
I’m kind of busy.
Plus, I’d feel out of place.
I don’t celebrate Christmas.
Our sister wasn’t prepared to address
a common situation during the holiday season.
With more preparation,
she could have responded with conviction.
Let’s watch.
So you’re coming
to the Christmas party next week, right?
While I appreciate the invitation,
I won’t be going.
You won’t be going?
Everybody’s going to be there.
I’ve made a personal decision
not to celebrate Christmas.
Really?
Why?
I’m one of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
and I’ve learned through a study of the Bible
that Jesus wasn’t really born in December
and that Christmas
is based on unscriptural customs and ideas.
If you have just a moment,
I’d like to show you a web article
that discusses the origin
of some Christmas customs.
Sure.
Because our sister spoke with conviction,
she actually piqued
the interest of her coworker.
Of course,
expressing ourselves with conviction
should not be confused with being tactless,
opinionated, or pushy.
By appealing to our listeners
in a loving manner
expressed with conviction,
we will draw still others to the glorious
good news found in God’s Word.